---

copyright:
  years:  2018, 2023
lastupdated: "2023-03-27"

keywords:

subcollection: monitoring

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

---

# Time-series
{: #about-timeseries}

You can collect metrics from a number of platforms, orchestrators, and a wide range of applications such as Prometheus, JMX, StatsD, Kubernetes, and other application stacks, that are available in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud}}, outside the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}, or on-prem. You can also add more metrics by creating custom metrics and adding integrations.
{: shortdesc}


A *time-series* is a series of data-points ordered by time.  It is a unique combination of a metric name and label key-value pairs.  For example: `website_failedRequest |region='Asia', customer_ID='abc'`.

The same metric name can produce multiple *time-series* when the metric and label values differ.

For example, the following are 4 unique time series:

```text
metric_name{datacenter=”dc-1”, zone=”zone1”} 23
metric_name{datacenter=”dc-2”, zone=”zone1”} 34
metric_name{datacenter=”dc-3”, zone=”zone2”} 43
metric_name{datacenter=”dc-4”, zone=”zone2”} 23
```
{: screen}

A *data-point* is the value generated for a *time-series* at a given point in time.  For example: `[timestamp]|website_failedRequests:20|region='Asia', customer_ID='abc'`.

For example, 3K unique time-series in 10 seconds is 18K data-points per minute.  Or, 3K unique time-series in a minute would be 3K data-points per minute.

You are billed based on the number of time series hours collected during a billing cycle.
{: note}

## Sources of time-series
{: #about-collect-metrics-1}

For `TIME_SERIES_HOURS`, there are 4 sources of custom metrics:

* Custom metrics created by agents such as Prometheus, StatsD, JMX, and AppChecks.

   * Prometheus metrics are collected from Prometheus endpoints. By default any pod with `prometheus.io/scrape: true` is included.

   * StatsD metrics are collected automatically without setting up a collector.

   * JMX metrics can be collected by configuring the target and the JMX `MBeans` names.

   * AppChecks are small scripts run by the agent to collect metrics.

* {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} platform metrics. These are metrics generated by {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} services for your service instances. This also includes usage of the default {{site.data.keyword.mon_full_notm}} dashboards available in the {{site.data.keyword.mon_full_notm}} console under **Dashboard** > **Dashboard Templates** > **IBM**.

* Metrics sent using Prometheus remote write to {{site.data.keyword.mon_full_notm}} through Prometheus servers.

* Metrics forwarded to external systems using Kafka or an {{site.data.keyword.messagehub}} topic. The `sysdig_datastream_ts_usage` metric returns the number of time series exported using metric streaming.
